---
title: Padua & Canongia Lopes (2019)
description: General Ionic Liquids
---

### Provides

|Forcefield Name|Description|
|:--------------|:----------|
|`PCL2019/Anions`|Ionic liquid anions|
|`PCL2019/Cations`|Ionic liquid cations|

### Overview

The complete ionic liquids forcefield of Padua and Canongia Lopes, as found at [https://github.com/agiliopadua/ilff](https://github.com/agiliopadua/ilff/) (commit [1df07bd](https://github.com/agiliopadua/ilff/commit/1df07bdaf24897a85540d9e859843442e1fd8355)), covering a variety of normal and fluorinated cations and anions.

### Implementation Notes

#### Atom Types

- Renamed trifluoroacetate oxygen to `O2F` in order to distinguish it from normal acetate `O2` as it has differing Lennard-Jones parameters.
- For alkylsulphates (RSO4-) the bridging oxygen is wrongly labelled as `OS4` in the structures pdf (should be `OC4`).
- Alkane-style carbons are labelled `CT2` (two hydrogens) and `CT3` (three hydrogens).
- Alkylimidazolium hydrogen on ring nitrogen `HNA`'s original equivalent type was `HA`, but this is mapped to `HNA` since its Lennard-Jones parameters are zero (while those for other `HA` are not).
- Alkylimidazolium carbon next to ring nitrogen with H attached (`CW`) has different Lennard-Jones parameters to dialkylimidazolium `CW`, so this is mapped to `CWH` here.
- Lennard-Jones parameters for `CS3` and `CS4` are mapped to `CT`, but have slightly different epsilon values in the original forcefield (0.276 vs 0.27614) - this is assumed to be rounding, and the value listed to 5 d.p. is used.
- Similarly, `HS3` and `HS4` have a Lennard-Jones epsilon of 0.126, but the mapped type `HC` has an epsilon of 0.12552. Again this is assumed to be a rounding error, and the 5 d.p. value is used.
- Tosylate hydrogen `HTS` is mapped to `HC` but is listed as having Lennard-Jones sigma of 2.42, which is more consistent with an aromatic hydrogen (e.g. `HA`). The expected value of 2.5 for an aliphatic hydrogen (i.e. `HC`) is used.
- OPLS-AA alcohol carbon (CTO) and hydrogen (H10) not implemented - see OPLSAA2005/Alcohols for the full description.
- Phosphonium P renamed from `P3` to `P4` for consistency with `N4` and https://github.com/agiliopadua/ilff/blob/master/ilff_structures.pdf.
- Polarisable `C1A` not implemented.

#### Intramolecular Parameters

- Bond constraints are implemented as harmonic bonds with the specified force parameters.
- Trifluoroacetate bond parameters are missing in the `il.ff` file, so are taken from `examples/old.il.ff`.
- Benzylimidazolium AMBER wildcard torsions `CA-CT-NA-CR` and `NA-CT-CA-CA` are implemented as `NoForm` torsions, and the missing `CA-CT-NA-CW` has been added (e.g. found in `benzc1im`).
- Alkoxy torsion `NA-CT-CT-OH` taken from `old.il.ff`.
